In this demo,
we'll be creating an email reminder system that's
triggered by two scheduled events.
One will be a RAID event and the other will be a Cron event.
Now, both of those triggers will invoke a handler function.
That function will determine which of the two triggers is invoking it
from the information provided through the event.
It will create one type of email when the Cron event
triggers it and send out that email,
and then another type of email when the RAID event triggers it,
and send that second type of email.
So let's look at the steps to create our first serverless service.
First,
we'll create the service from scratch using the boilerplate
templates that the framework provides.
Then, we'll update our serverless.
yml file to scaffold out the details of our service.
After that, we'll update the contents of our handler.
js file with our own function code,
and then set up AWS's simple email service in the AWS
console in order to send ourselves emails.
Finally,
we'll make sure we have all of the dependencies squared away before we
deploy our service and invoke a sample function.
The first thing we'll need to do will be to create a template for our service.
We'll do this with the serverless create --template
and used the aws-nodejs parameter,
as well as the --path to specify where the service will
be installed in serverless-reminders.
As you can see, we now have a serverless-reminders folder.
In that directory, we start out with a handler.
js file, and a serverless.
yml file.
Let's take a look at the serverless.
yml file now.
The only thing you'll be keeping in the serverless.
yml file is the service specific portion,
as well as the provider section that you see here.
Go ahead and remove everything else from the serverless.
yml file.
When you're done, you should have something that looks like this.
At any point, if you get stuck,
you can reference the demos for this module in order to copy and
paste over the correct code for this serverless.
yml file, or any other file that we're using in this module.
Next, we'll add in some IAM statements that we'll need for this demo to function.
This essentially will allow the functions to access AWS' simple email service,
or SES.
After that, we'll add in the functions that we'll be using in this demo.
We'll start with the dailyReminder function,
which has a handler, and the handler file is called handler.
js, so in this case, it'll start with handler.
The function within that handler is sendReminderDaily,
which we'll be using as the second part of that handler.
Once we're done with that,
we'll go ahead and add the event that will trigger the function itself.
That event will be a scheduled event, which will use the rate option in AWS,
and in the case of this function, we'll be using it every day,
so we'll put 1 day.
We'll also add a second function, which will be our weekendReminder.
We'll call this weekendReminder.
We'll add a handler, which also exists in the hanlder.
js file, in this case being sendReminderWeekend.
We'll add a Cron event for this function,
so that it runs on Sunday and Saturday at a specific time on the weekend.
Keep in mind that when you're setting these times,
it'll be in UTC, not near a specific time zone.
Now let's take a look at our handler.
js file.
To expedite this process,
I won't have you write all the code for the handler from scratch.
You can open up the demos file that you have for this module,
and inside it you should see a folder with three files that
we'll need to copy into our new service.
The first one is the handler.
js file, and the other two files just to speed things up for later,
are two dependencies we'll be using to create email templates.
The first is dailyReminder.
html, and the second is weekendReminder.
html.
You're welcome to reference any of the other files as you see fit.
However, we'll primarily be working with the ones I've mentioned.
The rest are used by npm to install the entire project.
But because we'll be creating this more from scratch,
we'll be going through this bit by bit instead of
actually installing it with npm install.
Now let's take a look at handler.
js.
In this file, we export two functions that are almost identical.
The first is the sendReminderDaily function,
which we've configured to run on a daily basis within serverless.
yml.
As you can see, it has several requirements that it needs to work.
The first is the aws-sdk,
which is used to create an ses client for sending emails via this function.
Fortunately,
we don't actually need to include this dependency when building our function.
Within the execution environment in AWS, we get it by default.
We'll also need fs,
which we'll be using to access the local filesystem
and load in our email templates.
After that,
we set the email address that we'll be sending and receiving email to and from,
and then create the parameters we'll be passing in to AWS.
SES.
The main things to notice in these parameters are that we send
both the option of an HTML and plain text email,
and that we're using the same email to send and receive mail.
This repeated email is because while we're starting out with SES,
we have to verify all to and from addresses as an AWS precaution to avoid spam.
You can remove this barrier for full-blown applications,
but in this course we won't be getting into those details.
Farther down on the code, we'll use the ses.
sendEmail method with the parameters that we've
created to send an email via AWS.
And finally, in typical node fashion,
we'll write out what we'd like to happen in the case of errors and successes.
You'll see almost identical code below in the second function,
with the key exceptions of the function's name and the filesystem
location that it loads its email template from.
Now let's verify an email on the ses portion of the AWS console.
Scroll through the AWS services and look for the Simple Email Service.
Open that up and click on the email address section.
My console will look slightly different than yours,
because I've already verified emails.
But you should also see the button to verify a new email address.
Click that and enter the email you'd like to use.
Then check that email and follow the verification instructions provided by AWS.
After that, you should be able to refresh the page and see the verified address.
At this point, we're ready to deploy our first service.
You can open up the terminal again and get back to the
top level of our service directory.
You should be able to list out the files and see our HTML templates, a handler.
js file, and our serverless.
yml file.
Now we can run serverless deploy.
This will package up our service, create a CloudFormation stack,
upload a deployment artifact to S3,
and generally manage the entire AWS deployment process for our new service.
When it's finished,
you should see an overview of the deployment status that
includes the new functions we've just deployed.
Let's try testing them now.
We'll run serverless invoke --function,
and we'll use the dailyReminder function to run that.
We'll also include the --log flag in order to make sure that any
logging information is printed to the console.
This should run a test of the function and display the runtime information.
And here's a great example of how logging out the runtime
information when invoking a function can be useful.
If we review this error, we can see that we neglected to update our handler.
js file with a proper verified email, so let's update that and try again.
Here's the verified email we need to update.
Now that we've updated and saved our handler file,
let's update the specific function we'll be using.
We can save ourselves some time by deploying that specific function
with serverless deploy --function daily reminder.
This will update and deploy all the dependencies for this particular
function without doing the entire deployment process.
Especially in larger services, this saves us a lot of time.
Now if we retest the function, we see it works correctly.
If we load up our email, we can see this successfully send to email.
Now let's take a look at the AWS Lambda console.
You can load up the homepage and find the section for lambda.
On this page, we can see the functions that the framework has created for us.
If we click into those,
we can also see the CloudWatch events these
functions now have to be triggered by.
But what happens if we want to tear down the service completely?
Well, we can do this with the serverless remove command.
If we check the console again,
all of our functions and infrastructure should have disappeared.
But of course you might want the occasional reminder to work with the
serverless framework and see cute puppies while you're doing so.
So feel free to go back and edit the schedule and the re-deploy the
entire application again with serverless deploy.
Wow, so we covered a lot in that last module.
We learned all about the core serverless framework concepts of functions,
events, resources, and services.
We also learned a variety of serverless framework skills,
including the processes and best practices that we can use to develop,
configure, deploy, and test our services.
And we did all that while deploying our first serverless service.
With that heavy learning load out of the way,
let's take a look at what's coming up.
In the next module, we'll be looking at serverless APIs and applications,
and how we can build those using the serverless framework. So see you there.